# Natural Language Processing Models
### These are the NLP models I have built using different datasets:
## LSTM: Achieved Accuracy = 97.63% (Dataset: MNIST) 
LSTM networks are an extension of recurrent neural networks (RNNs) mainly introduced to handle situations where RNNs fail. The basic difference between the architectures of RNNs and LSTMs is that the hidden layer of LSTM is a gated unit or gated cell. It consists of four layers that interact with one another in a way to produce the output of that cell along with the cell state. These two things are then passed onto the next hidden layer. Unlike RNNs which have got the only single neural net layer of tanh, LSTMs comprises of three logistic sigmoid gates and one tanh layer. Gates have been introduced in order to limit the information that is passed through the cell. They determine which part of the information will be needed by the next cell and which part is to be discarded. The output is usually in the range of 0-1 where ‘0’ means ‘reject all’ and ‘1’ means ‘include all’.  
## GRU: Achieved Accuracy = 97.3% (Dataset: MNIST)
Introduced by Cho, et al. in 2014, GRU (Gated Recurrent Unit) aims to solve the vanishing gradient problem which comes with a standard recurrent neural network. GRU can also be considered as a variation on the LSTM because both are designed similarly and, in some cases, produce equally excellent results. To solve the vanishing gradient problem of a standard RNN, GRU uses, so-called, update gate and reset gate. Basically, these are two vectors which decide what information should be passed to the output. The special thing about them is that they can be trained to keep information from long ago, without washing it through time or remove information which is irrelevant to the prediction.

In spite of being quite similar to LSTMs, GRUs have never been so popular. But what are GRUs? GRU stands for Gated Recurrent Units. As the name suggests, these recurrent units, proposed by Cho, are also provided with a gated mechanism to effectively and adaptively capture dependencies of different time scales. They have an update gate and a reset gate. The former is responsible for selecting what piece of knowledge is to be carried forward, whereas the latter lies in between two successive recurrent units and decides how much information needs to be forgotten.
## Transformer: Achieved Accuracy = 98.41% (Dataset: MNIST)
